 
Page 1 of 6 
Introduction to Programming with Python [2177-1] © NCC Education Limited 2026 
 
Level 3 Diploma in Computing  
Ofqual Number: 600/6407/9 Quartz ID: 1155  
Level 3 International Foundation Diploma for Higher Education Studies  
Ofqual Number: 603/0080/2 Quartz ID: 1125  
  
Paper ID: 2177-1 
Introduction to Programming with Python  
Global Assignment  
Title: Interactive game with items 
  
  
Important notes:  
 
• Please refer to the Assignment Presentation Requirements for advice on how to set 
out your assignment. These can be found on the NCC Education website. Hover 
over ‘About Us’ on the main menu and then navigate to ‘Policies and Procedures’ 
then scroll to the ‘Student Support’ area. 
• You must read the NCC Education document Academic Misconduct Policy and 
ensure that you acknowledge all the sources that you use in your work. These 
documents are available on the NCC Education website. Hover over ‘About Us’ on 
the main menu and then navigate to ‘Policies and Procedures’ then scroll to the 
‘Student Support’ area. 
• You must complete the Statement and Confirmation of Own Work. The form is 
available on the NCC Education website. Hover over ‘About Us’ on the main menu 
and then navigate to ‘Policies and Procedures’ then scroll to the ‘Student Support’ 
area. 
• Please note, word count is not applicable on this assignment as the artefact 
to be produced is a programming code (with a word document containing 
screenshots of the results, a filled-out object definition sheet and a test log) 
• You must submit a paper copy and digital copy (on disk or similarly acceptable 
medium). Media containing viruses, or media that cannot be run directly, will result 
in a fail grade being awarded for this assessment. 
• All electronic media will be checked for plagiarism.  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Page 2 of 6 
Introduction to Programming with Python [2177-1] © NCC Education Limited 2026 
 
Introduction 
Plan, create and test a Python program to meet the given scenario. 
 
You need to produce a working Python program and a Word document containing the 
following: 
• Success criteria.  
• Decomposition of the problem. 
• Design of modules and algorithms using pseudocode. 
• The Python program code. 
• Screenshots of the Python program working. 
• A test log including a range of tests and screenshot evidence of the results. 
• Installation and user guide documentation. 
 
 
 
Scenario 
A computer program needs developing that allows user to navigate a simulated world.   
The program has the following requirements: 
• Single player game, the user can enter the name of their character. 
• The player has a bag where they can collect and store up to 4 items. 
• The game outputs the current position of the player and the choices they can make. 
Some example choices are: 
o Do you want to move forward or to the right? 
o Do you want to look around for items? 
o There is a key on the floor, do you want to pick up the key? 
o There is a person blocking the door, do you want to speak to them? 
o The door is locked, do you want to check your bag for a key? 
• The game takes the choices as input from the user. 
• The user has to interact with the game and elements in the game until they reach 
an end point and complete the game. 
 
You will need to design the structure of your game including where and how the players 
can move.  You can create a text-based game or use a library to include graphics.   
 
You will need to take a modular approach to the program to allow the user to move 
between different parts of the game, including back to previously visited positions.  A class 
needs to be used for at least one element of the game. 
 
The items that can be collected need to be carefully considered to make sure they can be 
identified by the player, picked up and stored in the bag.  The bag will need to be an 
appropriate data structure to store a maximum of FOUR (4) items at a time. 
 
The game needs to have a minimum of 10 different positions that the player can move to 
and a minimum of 5 different items to collect. 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 6 
Introduction to Programming with Python [2177-1] © NCC Education Limited 2026 
 
Task 1 - Decomposition and design – 40 marks 
 
• Restate the specification and describe the outcomes. 
• Identify a list of success criteria for the game to which you will compare your 
finished program. 
(5 Marks)  
• Design the story for your game including a layout for the player to move in, the 
directions they can move at each stage, the items they can pick up and where 
these are used. 
• Identify the data structures that will be required.  
• Decompose the game into subproblems.   
(5 Marks) 
• Create one or more structure diagrams for the game. 
(5 Marks) 
• Design algorithms for all parts of the program using pseudocode.  Design each of 
the sub-programs, for example functions, that will be used and how these will inter-
relate. 
(25 Marks) 
 
Task 2 Implementation – 30 marks 
 
• Create your program using Python. 
• Test your program regularly to make sure it works. 
• Create a copy of your program code and include screenshots to show the 
implementation of your system. 
 
Task 3 Testing – 25 marks 
• Creating a testing strategy for your program to include: 
o Tests for all aspects of the program. 
o A range of test data include normal, extreme (where applicable) and not 
valid. 
o How the program has been put through unit testing and integration testing. 
o How the program will be tested as a whole using run-throughs and whitebox 
testing. 
(15 Marks) 
 
• Test your program using your strategy and produce evidence of the outcomes using 
a test log. 
• Complete the results of each test. 
• Include evidence for each test. 
(5 Marks) 
• Test your program against your success criteria.  Produce evidence or refer to 
where the evidence can be found in your documentation, for the results of your 
testing. 
(5 Marks) 
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 6 
Introduction to Programming with Python [2177-1] © NCC Education Limited 2026 
 
Task 4 Technical documentation – 5 marks 
• Create an installation guide for your game to show a user how to install the 
program, where any files need to be located and how to start the program. 
• Create technical documentation for your game to explain how your game works, the 
libraries it uses and the purpose of each function to allow other programmers to edit 
the game in future. This should include: 
o Commented code listings. 
o Identification and purpose of sub-programs. 
o Identification of libraries required, the library functions used and their 
purpose in the code. 
 
Mark distribution 
• Design (40 marks) 
• Implementation (30 marks) 
• Testing (25 marks) 
• Publishing programme and installation documentation (5 marks) 
 
 
Hints on design and implementation 
• Your program does not need to make use of graphics, it can provide a text-output of 
game. 
• Object-oriented programming must be used for one or more parts of the game. 
 
Guidance 
The assessment of your project will depend in part upon the quality of the documentation 
that you have produced.  
• Restate the specification of the assignment by listing the Required Outcomes. 
• Take the time required to design the assignment before you type any program code. 
Follow an appropriate design and documentation sequence. 
• Always document your designs before you implement them. 
• Provide a detailed design including, where appropriate, the design of any algorithms. 
• Build in error handling to involve meaningful messages that would help with any future 
maintenance of the software. 
• Annotate your program code appropriately. 
• Design a testing strategy. 
• Justify the design of suitable comprehensive test data. 
• Show evidence of testing. 
• Where appropriate, detail any major corrective action that you have taken in the light of 
the testing process. 
 
 
 
Page 5 of 6 
Introduction to Programming with Python [2177-1] © NCC Education Limited 2026 
 
Submission requirements 
A word-processed document must be submitted incorporating the full documentation of all 
the significant aspects of the development of the assignment above. The document should 
be submitted both in paper form and digital form. 
 
Refer to the Guidance above when producing your final documentation. 
 
You are required to submit a publishable copy of the compiled system together with 
installation notes. 
This publishable copy, that includes a setup file, should be on an appropriate medium (CD, 
USB flash drive, etc.). 
 
 
Candidate checklist 
 
Please use the following checklist to ensure that your work is ready for submission. 
 
Have you read the NCC Education document Academic Misconduct 
Policy and ensured that you have acknowledged all the sources that 
you have used in your work? 
❑ 
  
Have you completed the Statement and Confirmation of Own Work 
form and attached it to your assignment? You must do this. ❑ 
  
  
Have you ensured that your work does not contain viruses and can 
be run directly? ❑ 
 
  
 
Page 6 of 6 
Introduction to Programming with Python [2177-1] © NCC Education Limited 2026 
 
Example test log 
 
Test number Test purpose Input data Expected 
result 
Actual 
result 
Evidence 
      
      
      
      
      
 